# git-source-control
 Server-side source control extension for Git on InterSystems' platforms

## Prerequisites/Dependencies

* IRIS instance with license key
* Git 2.31.0+
* OpenSSH 7.6+
* InterSystems package manager (https://openexchange.intersystems.com/package/ObjectScript-Package-Manager)

## Installation and Setup

1. Load this repository into IRIS from the community package registry. 
    ```
    zpm "install git-source-control"
    ```
2. Configure settings by running the following method and answering the prompts:
   ```
   d ##class(SourceControl.Git.API).Configure()
   ```
3. If using VSCode: Set up `isfs` server-side editing. First, save your current workspace in which you have the code open. Then, open the `.code-workspace` file generated by VS Code and add the following to the list of folders: 
    ```
    {
        "name": "<whatever you want the folder to show up as in the project explorer view>",
        "uri": "isfs://<instance_name>:<namespace_name>/"
    }
    ```

## Basic Use

### Studio
Add a file for tracking by right-clicking on it in the workspace/project view and choosing Git &gt; Add.
This same menu also has options to remove (stop tracking the file), discard changes (revert to the index), or commit changes.

You can browse file history and commit changes through a user interface launched from the top level Git > "Launch Git UI" menu item. There is also a page for configuring settings.

### VSCode
The same right click menus as in Studio live under "Server Source Control..." when right-clicking in a file (in the editor) or on a file when exploring an isfs folder. The top level "source control" menu is accessible through the command palette or the source control icon in the top right of the editor.

## Notes

### Security
If you want to interact with remotes from VSCode/Studio directly (e.g., to push/pull), you must use ssh (rather than https), create a public/private key pair to identify the instance (not yourself), configure the private key file for use in Settings, and configure the public key as a deploy key in the remote(s).

### Setting up multiple GitHub deploy keys on one machine

Assuming you have the local and remote repositories created,

1. Create your key pair using `ssh-keygen`.
2. Add the public key to GitHub.
3. You can try setting remotes with the URL your remote repository provides, but sometimes your firewall might cause issues and refuse the SSH connection. In that case, I've found that changing the remote URL to the following is helpful:
   `ssh://git@ssh.github.com:443/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>.git`
4. Copy the private key into 2 locations
   1. `<path to IRIS Instance storage>\mgr\<private key>`
   2. `~/.ssh/<private key>`
5. Make sure to set the owner and permissions for the private key correctly. For Windows, go to where the private key is stored in IRIS and edit the owner to be the admin, disable inheritance and remove all access to the key to every user except the admin.
6. In git source control settings, set the path to the private key as the one in IRIS.
7. Change the default `ssh` command in the git config for **your repository** as:
   `git config core.sshCommand 'ssh -i ~/.ssh/<private key name>'`
8. Test the refresh button for the remote branches on the WebUI, fetch from the source control menu in Studio or VS Code, and `git fetch` in Git Bash. All 3 should work without any issues.

## During Development

:warning: Whenever any code in this project is updated outside the server (e.g. after every `git pull`), you _have_ to run `zpm "load <absolute path to git-source-control>"`. Otherwise, the changes won't be reflected on the server. However, if you load git-source-control via the InterSystems package manager and run `git pull` via the extension itself with the default pull event handler configured, it'll just work.
